 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
ISI SELF-ASSESSMENT REPORT  
ACCORDING TO IEAQA AND AQU-MED REFERENCES  
 
 
June 2019

 
 
 
Table of Contents
1 PRESENTATION OF THE ISI ............................................. .................................................. ............................. 3
2 TRAINING ................................................ .................................................. ............................................. 3
2.1 THE OFFER OF KNOWLEDGE AND TRAINING ................................................................................................ 3
2.2 SUPPORTING THE STUDENT IN THEIR TRAINING ................................................................ 12
2.3 COURSE EVALUATION ............................................ .................................................. ................. 14
2.4 KNOWLEDGE CONTROL ................................................................................................................ 15
2.5 PROFESSIONAL GUIDANCE AND INTEGRATION ................................................................................ 16
2.6 DOCTORAL TRAINING ................................................................................................................. 18
3 RESEARCH ................................................................................................................................................ 18
3.1 THE PLACE OF RESEARCH ................................................................................................................ 18
3.2 SCIENTIFIC RELATIONS AND PARTNERS ................................................................................ 20
4 GOVERNANCE .................................................................................................................................... 21
4.1 INFORMATION SYSTEM ............................................. .................................................. ................. 21
4.2 CONDITIONS FOR DEVELOPING POLICIES ................................................................................ 21
4.3 ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT OF COMPONENTS AND SERVICES ................................................ 23
4.4 MANAGEMENT OF SUPPORT FUNCTIONS IN THE SERVICE OF MISSIONS ............................................ 25
4.5 QUALITY MANAGEMENT ................................................................................................................ 25
4.6 SWOT ANALYSIS AND GOVERNANCE ASSESSMENT ..................................................................... 28
5 LIFE WITHIN THE INSTITUTION AND SOCIETY ..................................................................................... 29
5.1 RECEPTION AND CARE OF STUDENTS AND STAFF ................................................ 29
5.2 CULTURAL AND SPORTING ACTIVITIES ................................................................................................ 30
5.3 LIVING, WORKING AND STUDY CONDITIONS OF UNIVERSITY STAFF (HEALTH, HYGIENE,
SECURITY, …) .................................................................................................................................................... 30
5.4 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (ETHICS, CITIZENSHIP, EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES, DEVELOPMENT
SUSTAINABLE, …) .............................................. .................................................. .................................................. ... 31
5.5 SWOT ANALYSIS AND EVALUATION OF LIFE WITHIN THE INSTITUTION ................................................ 33
5.6 SWOT ANALYSIS AND EVALUATION OF LIFE WITHIN THE INSTITUTION ................................................ 36
6 RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN ISI AND UTM ................................................................................................................ 37
6.1 RELATIONSHIP OF 'ISI WITH THE UTM ................................................................................................................ 37
6.2 RELATIONSHIP OF UTM WITH ISI ................................................................................................................ 38
6.3 SWOT ANALYSIS AND EVALUATION ............................................. .................................................. ......... 39
7 OVERALL EVALUATION .............................................. .................................................. ......................... 41
 
 
 
 
 
  
1 PRESENTATION OF ISI
The Higher Institute of Computer Science under the University of Tunis El Manar was created by
Decree No. 1912 of August 14, 2001. It has the status of a Public Establishment of a
Administrative (EPA) with the mission of higher education and scientific research
in the field of science and technology.
Since its creation, the number of students has increased from 170 students in 2001
around 2500 students in 2013 and has stabilized around 1100 students in recent years
(see Figure 1)
 
 
Figure 1: Evolution of the number of students at ISI
 
Following a great opening on the socio-economic environment, ISI graduates have
showed strong integration potential and remarkable competence which contributed to the
influence of the establishment which has since become one of the most renowned establishments
in the field of IT and its applications: Information systems,
development, IOT, networks and telecoms, embedded systems and industrial computing.
2 TRAINING
2.1 THE OFFER OF KNOWLEDGE AND TRAINING  
2.1.1 The institution must offer clearly defined training courses that are in line with its
missions, as well as with the national and international context.
ISI offers the following training courses:
L1+L2+L3 M1+M2 ING1+I2+3
 
  
✔ Three-year Bachelor's degree training cycle in Computer Science (04)
specialties:
o SIL: Computer Systems and Software
o SI: Computer Science
o ARS: Administration of Networks and Services
o SE: Embedded Systems
The evolution of the number of undergraduate students since 2007 is shown in the following figure:
 
Figure 2: Evolution of the number of undergraduate students by level at the ISI
The decrease in this number by each level is a consequence of the decrease in the number of
graduates in recent years
 
✔ Three-year training cycle for Computer Engineers (03)
specialties:
o GLSI: Software Engineering and Information Systems
o GTR: Telecommunications and Networks Engineering
o GISI: Industrial Systems Computer Engineering
The evolution of the number of engineering students since 2007 by level is presented
in Figure 3.  
L1 L2 L3
 
  
 
Figure 3: Evolution of the number of students in engineering training by level at the ISI
The number of first-year engineering students who enter following a specific competition is
120 to 125 students per year.
✔ Training cycle in Professional Masters in Computer Science "Systems Security
Communicating and Embedded Computing (SSICE);
✔ Training cycle in Professional Masters in Computer Science "Free Software"
(MP2L) in collaboration with the Virtual University of Tunis;
✔ Training cycle in Research Masters in Computer Science with two courses:
SIIVA and GL
The evolution of the number of Master's students by level is presented in Figure 4.  
1-ING 2-ING 3-ING
 
  
 
 
Figure 4: Evolution of the number of students in all masters by level at the ISI
 
Bridges between the different training courses are presented in the organization chart of
route below:
M1 M2
 
  
 
Figure 5: Different ISI gateways
Admission to the Bachelor's degree cycle is done through the bachelor's orientation process. That of the cycle
Engineer is carried out at a Bac + 3 level in Computer Science (or equivalent) and via the competitive examination
national specific. Holders of a Bachelor's degree in Computer Science or
equivalent.
Engineering training is provided by four departments: Software and Systems Engineering
Information (GLSI), Architectures, Systems and Networks (ASR), Electrical Engineering and
Industrial Computing (GEII), Applied Mathematics (MA). The teaching staff is
made up of 119 permanent university teachers, temporary staff and experts. The staff
administrative, technical and worker is made up of 361 employees.
2.1.2 When developing the training offer, the institution should take into account the
following items without limitation:
฀ the establishment project and/or the strategic plan of the institution,
฀ national and international policies and guidelines,
฀ the private sector,
฀ the structures of the institution,
฀ the results of internal and external evaluations
 

 
  
To date, the ISI has never established its own establishment project or plan.
clearly formulated strategic, but acts in accordance with those of the ME S and the UTM.
Today, as part of the university reform towards unified licenses and
the accreditation or rehabilitation of engineering training, the ISI has revised its models of
training taking into account the MES strategic plan and economic guidelines
national and international. With this in mind, the ISI relied on the Professional References
and Skills to redefine its training offers according to the requirements of all parties
stakeholders.  
✔ As part of the LMD training; following the unification of licenses; three licenses
different ones proposed by the national sectoral commission in IT will be
adopted by the GLSI and GTR departments, namely:
o L 1.2: Computer science course  
▪ Mention: Software Engineering and Information Systems (GLSI)
▪ Mention: Computer Science and Multimedia (IM)
o L3: Computer engineering course
▪ Mention: Network and Systems Engineering (IRS)
A degree in embedded systems was offered by the GEII department to a
Ad-Hoc commission (IT & science and technology) for validation.
The 2 applied and research masters have just been rehabilitated in accordance with the
new requirements and needs of stakeholders.
✔ As part of the training of engineers, a national orientation towards the implementation
The place of the integrated preparatory class will be adopted according to certain national standards and
international, ISI is among the establishments concerned by this training
engineers (bac +5).
This document is considered to be an internal assessment of the establishment
proposed by the ISI quality committee.
2.1.3 The institution must clearly formalize all information relating to the programs of
training (titles, targeted objectives, opportunities, access conditions, training content)
proposed…) on media available to interested parties (catalogues, leaflets, websites,
bulletin boards…).
ISI provides two types of training:
 
 
  
a) Engineering training which includes five (5) semesters of teaching and one semester
final year project lasting 4 to 6 months. a summer internship lasting 1 to 2
month is mandatory at the end of the second year. A semester of study at the ISI corresponds
approximately 450 hours divided between courses, tutorials and practical work or face-to-face mini-projects. The plan
of studies1 of this training is available on the ISI website. It consists of a plan of
each semester indicating the modules which will be provided per period, the volumes
timetables, the course/tutorial/practical breakdown and the assessment method (Continuous Assessment,
Exam). The modules of each semester are grouped into teaching units in
ensuring consistency in terms of the skills targeted.
b) As part of the LMD training, the license program is available on the website of the
MES (Selima) and that of the masters is communicated to students and teachers at the beginning
of the year.
Schedules are posted on the boards and updated in a way
weekly on the ISI website.
2.1.4 The training offer must be organized in a way that is compatible with:
฀ teachers’ responsibilities (teaching, research, tutoring, administration, etc.),
฀ the qualifications of teacher-researchers,
฀ regular and timely payment of temporary workers,
฀ regulatory requirements,
 
For the 2018-2019 academic year, the ISI has 116 permanent teacher-researchers in
activity distributed according to grades as follows: 09 Higher education professors (PR),
05 Lecturers (MC), 71 Assistant Professors (MA), 14 Assistants (A) and 17
secondary school teachers.  
The number of students registered in 2018-2019 was 1130: 299 engineering students, 642 in
Bachelor's degree and 189 in Master's degree. The supervision rate at ISI is approximately 2.3 students per teacher
researcher. Some teaching is provided by experts from the socio-professional world.
In the event of a shortage of permanent teachers, contract and temporary staff are
requested This year, the ISI requested 26 temporary workers and 6 contract assistants.
Language lessons (French and English) as well as introductory workshops
Computer science is mainly provided by secondary school teachers
assigned to the school (PES or common body). A total of 11 secondary school teachers and 2
technologists are assigned to the School, representing 6% of the total number of permanent teachers.
 
1 http://www.isi.rnu.tn/upload/1557387515.pdf
 
  
The charges are managed by the departments relying on the educational units in
depending on the skills of teachers following Decree No. 2000-240 of January 31, 2000.
The teaching costs of languages ​​and cross-curricular subjects are managed by the
MA department.
Payment of contract workers is made by the UTM. Casual workers as well as hours
additional fees are paid by the ISI at the end of the academic year.
The evolution of the number of teachers is shown in Figure 6.
 
Figure 6: Evolution of the number of teachers
2.1.5 The institution must have adequate tools to:
฀ relevant knowledge of job offers,
฀ the search for internships for students,
 
Every year, ISI organizes an ISI-Entreprise day during which it invites its
economic partners to present their organizations and their internship and project offers
end of studies. This gives companies the opportunity to discuss directly with students
(private discussion and interview spaces) and allows them to recruit interns and
select candidates for final-year projects. Proposals for P FE and offers
job offers can also be sent directly by the partners to the internship director and
are then communicated to the students following posting on the board and on the FB page.
The majority of internships and PFE projects are collected mainly by students.  
Admission tests (PFE or hiring) may be organized on the premises of
the ISI.
Recently, within the framework of the activities of the 4C center, several partnerships have been developed
particularly the one with Tunis Business School “TBS”.
Temporary workers
Contractual workers
Permanent
 
  
2.1.6 The institution must have adequate resources to provide training modules
initial and, possibly, continuous. To this end, it must be able to state the existence of the elements
following:
฀ qualified human resources;
฀ suitable material resources;
฀ adequate infrastructure;
฀ sufficient financial resources.
 
Apart from the teaching staff mentioned above and the invitation of foreign professors
qualified in new technologies, the ISI has 164 administrative staff,
technicians and permanent workers in activity. Technicians ensure the maintenance of the park
IT in the practical work rooms, which is obsolete compared to technological needs
today, and to ensure the smooth running of laboratories that require upgrading
material.  
Material resources allocated to teachers and administrators (PC, scanner,
printers,.) are very limited and some purchases are dependent on a pooled market
university level.
The building, rented since 2001, comprises three blocks of four floors joined together (accessibility
limited and without emergency exits) is distributed as follows:
✔ Block A which contains at the same time:
o Library, 4C center, club premises (ground floor)  
o School service, technical service and drawing service (1st floor)
o Central administration, registry office and meeting room (3rd floor)
o Classrooms, practical work rooms, offices for teachers and toilet blocks
scattered over the 4 floors
✔ Block B which contains offices, classrooms and practical work rooms and two toilet blocks
✔ Block C which contains only two classrooms per floor
The layout of the building was not initially designed for educational purposes.
superior. Moreover, access to blocks 'B' and 'C' is only from block 'A'.
The ISI does not contain any lecture theatre or large room for organizing training or
lectures.
The annual ISI “Title I” budget is paid at the beginning of each year and will be deployed according to
its programs and activities. The salaries of teaching, administrative and manual staff
and contract workers are managed at the university level. The ISI manages the salaries of
temporary workers as well as overtime for all staff. “Title I”
The ISI budget is set each year in consultation between the ISI financial services and
those of the UTM. The ISI then freely manages its budget, in accordance with its status
of a Public Administrative Establishment. In 2019 this budget amounted to 1,113,018
 
  
Dinars of which 290,340 Dinars are intended for the rent of the building and the amount of “title II” is
raised to 95,424 Dinars.
2.1.7 The institution develops structures for steering and implementing training
To ensure all of its missions, the ISI has structures managed by teachers
researchers: one general management, two (02) study and internship management, four (4)
departments, a Research Laboratory. It also has three (03) structures
administrative departments headed by administrative executives: the secretary general, the secretary
principal and secretary of the establishment. The heads of all these structures are the
only people at the ISI holding functional positions and benefiting from a bonus of
function. The financial department, the examination department and the library are managed by
administrators without liability bonus.
The very recent ISI Quality Committee has an official existence according to Decree No. 2008-
2716 of August 4, 2008, which defines the committees for quality in establishments
higher education, but does not assign any functional positions to these committees.  
 
 
2.1.8 The institution offers various training methods (distance learning, work-study, etc.).
The ISI offers classic training methods: TD courses, practical work and mini-projects. Some
Guest professors provide training and lectures on new technologies
which generally fall within the framework of modules called: technological monitoring dedicated to
engineering students.
Some courses (C2I) are done remotely for undergraduate students and with the UVT, the ISI has put
set up a remote professional master's degree in computer systems security.
2.2 SUPPORTING THE STUDENT IN THEIR TRAINING
2.2.1 The institution has a policy of welcoming, monitoring and helping its students succeed.
On the first day of the academic year, the ISI organizes meetings between the director, the
director of studies and department directors and students to help especially the
new students to a good integration and explain to them the internal regulations of the ISI. This
The regulations are fully detailed in a charter duly signed by the students during
registration.
A signage display is planned to guide students in their movement in the
building.
An information day organized at the beginning of the year by club managers for the
presentation of their activities, the former team and the student integration procedures.
The monitoring of the smooth running of training is ensured by the department directors who
respond to student complaints.
 
  
The recently created 4C center helps to strengthen the efforts made by the internship director
For :
✔ Find internships
✔ Integrate companies during end-of-study projects and end-of-study internships
✔ Offer certified training courses
✔ Encourage self-entrepreneurship
The Secretary General and the Head of Education Services ensure that problems are resolved.
student administration
There is no support structure or personalized monitoring at the ISI
2.2.2 The institution offers the possibility of internal (bridges) and external (national,
international).
Some national mobility is possible:
✔ Internal mobility is carried out according to the gateways indicated in figure 2.
✔ Mobility between institutions of the same training for social reasons for
undergraduate students
✔ Mobility through specific competition (60% of external engineering students)
International mobility which generally falls within the framework of a convention
Joint graduation. An agreement has started with ENSEEIHT in Toulouse for elites in
engineering training since 2014, benefiting around ten students to date.
Second-year engineering students must repeat the second year in France since the
study regime does not allow to have the result per semester. Profiting from the same
convention these mobilities are extended to summer internships and end-of-study projects which is the
cases with several foreign socio-economic organizations.
 
2.2.3 The institution has a policy of access to documentation and all educational materials.
The ISI contains a library which has:
✔ A documentary fund consisting of 7469 titles of different types
✔ A copy of each Masters, PFE and SFE report is deposited in the library
every year  
✔ Access to the BIRUNI software which allows document searches by index: author,
title, subject, publisher, code, periodical title.
Access to electronic subscriptions through the National University Center of
Scientific and Technical Documentation (CNUDST). With regard to all institutions of
higher education, the ISI has a Coordinator in Science and Technology and
Research linking teacher-researchers and the CNUSDT.  
 
  
No culture of depositing courses in the library has been established at ISI, apart from
personal initiatives on the part of teachers for sharing documents.  
2.3 COURSE EVALUATION  
2.3.1 The institution should have procedures for implementing coordination
pedagogical required to ensure consistency and improvement of training content.
 
Educational coordination at the ISI is carried out between a manager and the other stakeholders in
the same subject (course, tutorials and practical work) but no document is returned to the director of
department.
LMD training:
✔ The content of the bachelor's degree programs is mainly (75%) offered by the
national sectoral commission and according to the importance and technological developments,
Following a request to the ministry, 25% of the materials can be changed following a
departmental proposal validated by the director of studies and the scientific council.
✔ The reform of the courses follows a national strategy with regard to the license
unified.
✔ The proposal and reform of master's courses are made according to the wishes of the
teachers involved in order to follow technological developments.
Engineering Training:
✔ A proposal for an integrated preparatory course has been presented to the Management for two years
General of Technological Studies (DGET). This training has been put on hold
up to the definition of a mapping of engineering training on a scale
national.
✔ A change in the current engineering training program is implemented
In place since the start of the 2018-2019 school year, this proposal was developed by a commission
internal involving only teachers from all departments.  
✔ Additional modules are offered in each specialty in the final year
on technological monitoring. The speakers in these modules (Tunisians or foreigners)
provide courses on new technologies or certified training.
2.3.2 The institution must have appropriate teaching resources and ensure support for
educational experimentation.
The teaching resources available at ISI are:
✔ 07 computer labs
✔ 03 laboratories: digital and analog electronics and automation
✔ 02 laboratories: telecommunication systems
 
  
2.3.3 Training programmes and teaching must be subject to evaluations
regular, in which students should be involved.
No evaluation of the training by the students was made apart from a few
petitions in case of non-satisfaction
2.4 KNOWLEDGE CONTROL
2.4.1 The institution must define relevant policies and provisions to control the
knowledge and validate learning throughout the training courses. The tests
assessment should be consistent with training and learning objectives.
The assessment methods defined in the study plans are continuous assessments, examinations
and projects. These modes are also announced in the course syllabuses. For the assessment
internships (carried out by French teachers), PFE of engineering students (the supervisor, a
rapporteur and a jury president) and SFE for future graduates, defenses are
scheduled according to the ISI annual calendar. The academic year is made up of two
semesters which are also divided into two periods of 7 weeks of courses. At the end of each
period, exams and supervised assignments are planned to assess the courses that have been
scheduled.  
2.4.2 The methods of knowledge control must be objective, fair, reliable,
published and communicated.
The knowledge modalities are objective according to the laws in force. My dates are fixed
at the beginning of each year and validated by the scientific council. The weekly is published on the
ISI website and displayed to students.  
The terms and conditions and regulations are detailed in the engineers' guide presented on the website
ISI and for LMD students, all regulations are published on the ministry's website.
2.4.3 Deliberations must be carried out in accordance with regulatory provisions.
Each year, during a scientific council, a list of jury presidents is designated for
each training and each level.
The director and the director of studies meet with the jury presidents to give them
documents containing all necessary regulations and setting the redemption conditions for
that the deliberations are fair.  
2-4-4 The institution must ensure that the proclamation of examination results complies
the established terms and timetables.
The period for the proclamation of results has been set since the beginning of the year. Each president
The jury is supposed to monitor the status of the submission of grades and ask latecomers to respect them.
deadlines. The date and time of the deliberation are set by the president and an invitation by
email is sent to the teachers concerned by the level in question.  
 
  
2.4.4 The institution must disseminate the examination results as soon as they are validated.
The grades for continuous assessments and first semester exams are published on the website
the ISI as soon as they are seized with the examination service. The results of the deliberations of the whole year
is validated by the director and immediately displayed on the boards and published on the website.
ISI. Transcripts are available a day or two after the deliberations.
2.5 ORIENTATION AND PROFESSIONAL INTEGRATION
2.5.1 The institution develops an orientation system.
ISI's 4C Career Center offers the opportunity to advise and guide students
engineers in their choices of their professional careers
2.5.2 The institution develops a system to support professional integration.
The ISI 4C Career Center also offers the following services:
Support for the placement of students in companies.
Support for students in entrepreneurship and business creation.
The ISI encourages the creation of clubs in its training areas and in the fields
linked to entrepreneurial cultures. There are 11 of these clubs (Enactus_ISI, BeB_ISI,  
CreativeLab_ISI, Freewayes_ISI, SecuriNets_ISI, Club IEEE_I SI, ArtBox_ISI, ISI-geeks,
CODEX, Makres change, : Atast_ISI) help in their activities and participation with
excellence in national competitions to a visibility of the ISI and the capacity of these
students
 
2.5.3 The institution develops partnerships with the socio-professional environment.
For about four years, a culture of agreements with companies has begun to emerge.
to be established at the ISI. These conventions have been reinforced in a remarkable manner since the
creation of the 4C center.  
2.5.4 The institution develops a system for monitoring the employability of graduates
No system is in place to monitor its graduates. Feedback from
Some companies with which the ISI has been collaborating for years are relevant indicators on
the quality of training of ISI graduates who are largely hired
immediately after the PFE.
 
Strengths Weaknesses
Excellent supervision rate  
Communication of study plans to
students (engineering courses only).
Multi-skilled teaching team
 
Local not dedicated to teaching during the
construction
Budget (300 MD) for rental
Pedagogy still too traditional  
Lack of multidisciplinary projects  
 
  
High percentage of teachers belonging
to research structures belonging
at UTM
Taking into account the evolution of the market
employment for changes of plans
of studies  
Periodic knowledge check.
Planning 4 sessions for homework
supervised and exams.
Uniqueness of exams for core courses
common to all sectors.
Diversity of training offer in content and
in learners
Entrepreneurship training through the
4C career center
Online Professional Masters (UVT)
High participation rate of
professionals (experts) in training
Lack of tools for knowledge of
job offers
Lack of systematic analysis tools and
periodic monitoring surveys
graduates
Massive departure of teachers in
technical cooperation
Insufficient human resources in
management and services level
administrative
No training assessment by  
students  
Lack of tools for data analysis
investigations
Absence of collections of old exams
with their corrections.
Failure to comply with the delivery dates
notes  
There is no more continuing education
 
  
 
  
Opportunities Risks
Opening of training to students
international (african)   
Implementation of an admission system on
specific competition for the elites of
graduates from other institutions
Opening of contract positions by
UTM
UVT involvement in training at
distance
Attracting the best students (score of more
higher)
Existence of double degrees from institutions
foreign
UTM Financing for Purchase
of works  
MESRS subscription with CNUDST
BIRUNI Base
International recognition of
proposed programs
Proposal of certified training by the
socio-economic environment
Number of active clubs participating and performing well
to national competitions
Number of students down due to
demographic hollow wave
Difficulty in recruiting staff and
teachers
Lack of contract and temporary workers
Computer network instability
Employer dissatisfaction with
their expectations
Decrease in the number of scholarships and
funding allowing students to
participate in international mobility and
to obtain a double degree
Geopolitical issues (ISI is located in
a popular area near the market
Change of legal texts for
the development or implementation of new
modules or the control system
Economic recession in the country and decline in
job offers
Lack of motivation among teachers for
free spots (quality, 4C, presidents of
jury)
 
2.6 DOCTORAL TRAINING
No doctoral school exists at the ISI, however there is only one LIMTIC laboratory having
the following data.
3 SEARCH
3.1 THE PLACE OF RESEARCH
Part completed later by the lab manager (all registrations are made at
the FST)
1 The institution must have research structures and should have a research entity
valuation.
Only one laboratory was created at the ISI in computer science and applied mathematics.
LIMTIC LABORATORY
 
Number of doctoral students: 31
 
  
Number of publications2,103
Number of patents (intellectual properties) 1
Number of conventions (national and international) 4
Number of theses defended 12
 
 
3-1-2 All teacher-researchers and researchers of the institution should belong to
multidisciplinary research teams.
The research structures of ENIT, FST and those of ENSI have made it possible to accommodate the
majority of permanent teacher-researchers, which allowed them to carry out an activity of
research and research supervision and to prepare for university accreditation.  
3-1-3 The institution must define its research priorities, which should be located in the
regional, national and international context.
The research structures of ENIT and FST cover all specialties of
engineering sciences and techniques and develop national research programs
in partnership with Tunisian companies and international programs in partnership
with foreign research teams.   
3-1-4 Scientific documentation must be accessible to teachers, researchers and
researchers of the institution.
Access to electronic subscriptions through the national university center of
Scientific and Technical Documentation (CNUDST).  
3-1-5 The institution must facilitate and encourage the participation of teacher-researchers and
researchers at national and international conferences.
A section in the budgets of research structures is dedicated to support
participation of researchers in scientific events. The ISI also supports
participation of researchers in scientific events from its budget.
3-1-6 The institution must encourage and facilitate the organization of seminars and meetings
national and international scientists.
There have been no seminars for six years
3-1-7 The institution should define a policy and provisions for the reception of
teachers-researchers and foreign researchers.
 
2 Impacted publications & articles (indexed or national)
 
  
For the modules related to technological monitoring, several guest professors taught
modules or gave lectures for final year classes or those of the master's degree
research.
3-1-8
The institution defines its research priorities and implements appropriate means.
Research structures define their research axes according to their
skills. The financial resources for research come from the ministry, from cooperation
international, H2020 projects, PAQ collaborate, PEER, PRF….
3-1-9
The institution has structures for steering and monitoring research.
NO
3-1-10 The institution organizes strategic reflection and an internal evaluation in
research material.
NO
3-1-11
The institution structures research according to its scientific priorities.
NO
3-1-12 The institution encourages the dynamism of research and motivates its teachers
researchers.
The ISI encourages the dynamism of research through its support for research structures
by providing them with the necessary infrastructure for their development. It motivates the
teacher-researchers by opening positions for grade advancements and encouraging
transfers to the ISI of teachers in new specialties.
3-1-13
The institution is developing a research training policy and through
research.
- an opening to the outside national and international world as well as the possibility of access
to financial support for the completion and promotion of their research work.
3.2 SCIENTIFIC RELATIONS AND PARTNERS
3-2-1 The institution must endeavour to initiate and/or participate in scientific partnerships
regional, national and international formalized within the framework of conventions
P
3-2-2 The institution should establish and implement a policy and arrangements for
communicate and disseminate its scientific production.
ENIT, through its research structures, regularly organizes seminars,
conferences and workshops to communicate and disseminate its scientific production.
Copies of masters, theses and Habilitation reports are deposited in the library and
 
  
made available to researchers. The research structures, through the website, provide
references to their researchers' publications  
4 GOVERNANCE
4.1 INFORMATION SYSTEM
4.1.1 4-1-1 The institution has a policy for collection, security, processing and analysis
and exploitation of information.
The order office ensures the collection and dispatching of data/mails.
information is not centralized in a specific location. No information system
reliable
4.1.2 The institution ensures the archiving and dissemination of administrative, educational and
scientist.
An archiving service exists at the ISI and allows the archiving of administrative documents and
educational. The dissemination of information is done by posting, by email or on the website of
ISI. Computer data is archived at users' premises. PFE reports,
Masters, theses and qualifications must be submitted to the library in order to have the
diploma. They are archived and made available to students.  
4.1.3 The institution has digital services available to its students and staff.
The ISI does not have a digital service. Sometimes we opt for scanning timetables,
exam invitations and even student grades to put them on the site. All
administrative documents are in paper format.
4.2 CONDITIONS FOR DEVELOPING POLICIES
4.2.1 The establishment's councils must meet regularly and reach decisions
decision, based on an agenda identified and previously distributed to members.
The institution must involve socio-economic operators in the various councils.
A scientific council of the ISI is constituted for a period of three years and meets in
average once a month. It is composed of: Director of the school, director of studies,
director of internships and environmental outreach (designated but generally absent),
the 4 department directors, the general secretary, 8 representatives of the teacher-researchers
elected, 3 students elected each year and 2 representatives of economic, social and
cultural.
4.2.2 4-2-2 The institution should know its margin of autonomy and take full advantage of it.
Orientation law n° 19-2008 of 25/2/2008
3 on higher education plans to organize
higher education and scientific research establishments either in the form of EPA
either in the form of a Public Scientific and Technological Establishment (EPST);
 
3 http://www.ilo.org/dyn/natlex/docs/SERIAL/78210/83454/F927320668/TUN-78210.pdf
 
  
status created by Decree No. 2008-3581 of November 21, 2008 4 but never implemented.
In 2016, circular no. 15/16 of the Minister of Higher Education and Research
Scientist of 22/2/2016 invited institutions that meet the transformation criteria
of status and who wish to transform themselves, to do so and the ISI is not yet in a position to address
these procedures.
4.2.3 The institution should promote the participation of its students in institutional management
(student representatives in decision-making bodies, student delegates by
training, participation in assessments, etc.).
Three elected students are part of the ISI scientific council (1 delegate for students in
master's degree, 1 delegate for engineering students and another representative of undergraduate students).
A representative from each class is elected each year to act as an interface between
each class and the administration. Students who belong to clubs participate in the
preparation and organization of the company day.
No training evaluation took place
4.2.4 The institution has structures responsible for developing concerted training policies,
research and governance.
The departmental councils provide educational monitoring functions with the aim of
regularly update training courses. The aim is to ensure their
adequacy with scientific and technological developments and the requirements of
the economic environment. Governance policies have changed almost little since
years because they are linked to the regulations defined by the ministry.
4.2.5 The institution organizes its internal consultation for the development of its various policies:
training, research, administrative management and governance.
Not applicable
 
4.2.6 The institution's policy is in line with national strategic guidelines for
higher education and research.
The ISI's strategic orientation policy is consistent with the UTM strategy which
has been strongly committed in recent years to the continuous improvement of its performance
and those of its establishments, by starting the design and development of a System
Quality Management in accordance with the requirements of recognized standards.  
4.2.7 The institution's policy and strategy, particularly in the field of research,
training, international relations and services provided to society take into account
its local, national and international environments.
In the absence of a position dedicated to international relations and quality which deals with developing
the institute's strategies, these two functions are carried out by the same person and the director
 
4 http://www.utm.rnu.tn/utm/documents/reglement/organization/32.pdf
 
  
who manages day-to-day affairs (lack of a strategy for research and a strategy for
international relations).
4.2.8 The institution has a shared development project.
ISI has not developed a shared development project
4.3 ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT OF COMPONENTS AND SERVICES
4.3.1 4-3-1 The institution must have internal regulations adapted to the implementation of projects
and policies of the institution.
 
The ISI has defined a guide for its internal regulations concerning engineering students and does not
charter containing the internal regulations is updated almost every year and signed by all
students.
4.3.2 The institution must have a clear, relevant and communicated organizational chart within
the institution. The institution should define replacement arrangements for the
key positions.
The official ISI organization chart contains only four members (the Director, the Director of
studies/deputy director, the internship director, the general secretary and secretary
However, a new unofficial organizational chart that reflects the organization
current school layout has been established (Figure 7)
 
Figure 7: Current ISI organization chart
Noticed :
The blank boxes are unpaid functional positions and structures.
 
 
 
 
Direction
 
Internship Management
  
Secretary General
 
Principal Secretary
  
Financial service
  
School service
  
Examination service  
  
HR department
  
Library
 
The 4
departments
  
Center 4C
 
Scientific Council
 
Vice Director
Management of
Studies
 
County Quality
 
  
4.3.3 The institution must establish and implement effective internal communication tools.
A distribution of tasks in the different departments is put in place and by habit or
word of mouth each person goes to the right person to solve a problem
or communicate with a person. It is true that there is no communication problem
between the different stakeholders but there are no job descriptions or written documents
on who does what.
4.3.4 4-3-4 The structure of the institution is adapted to the achievement of its missions and objectives
; it allows efficient piloting.
The ISI has a functional unit to carry out each of its missions. In this sense,
It has:
● Structures managed by teacher-researchers: a general management, management
studies, internship management and openness to the environment and doctoral school.  
● Five (5) departments,  
● Twelve (12) research laboratories and four (4) research units.  
● Three (3) administrative structures headed by administrative executives: the secretariat
general, the financial department and the library.
● A quality committee
4.3.5 4-3-5 The head of the institution manages and allocates resources in accordance with the
objectives of the institution; it organizes the evaluation of the effectiveness of their implementation.
The director exercises the following powers:
● Supervision of the proper scientific and educational functioning of the establishment,
coordination of the activity of teaching and scientific research bodies and
ensures the organization of examinations and the appointment of jury presidents,
● Ensures that order and discipline are maintained within the establishment,  
● Ensures the proper functioning of administrative and financial services and the exercise
functions of the establishment's budget authorising officer,  
● Represents the establishment with respect to third parties, with respect to justice and concludes
agreements and contracts after agreement of the president of the university
4.3.6 4-3-6 The institution guarantees the material means necessary and appropriate for the smooth running of
his activities.
The renewal of teaching materials is done through competitive financing
opened by the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
(Quality Support Programs), either through international cooperation funds or
through the university's "Title II". The school itself carries out the maintenance of some
equipment and the replacement of certain parts in order to ensure continuity of work
practices. From time to time, it renews certain manipulations or
some practical work stands on the funds she obtains through her activity
openness to the environment. The school has twelve (12) computer rooms intended
to the teaching of practical computer work but also to the teachings
specialized requiring specific software. The acquisition of computer hardware is
provided in a grouped manner by the university. The acquisition of teaching software is
provided by the School according to the requests of teachers and needs. The software used for
 
  
administrative and financial management are offered for all administrations
public.
4.4 MANAGEMENT OF SUPPORT FUNCTIONS IN THE SERVICE OF MISSIONS
4.4.1 4-4-1 The institution manages its human resources in accordance with its missions and values.
The teaching staff is made up of 191 permanent university teachers and a
hundred temporary workers who are often practicing engineers. The administrative staff,
technical and worker is made up of 164 people. These human resources, in decline
continues, leading to a disparity in the teaching load on the one hand, and a lack
internally of certain functions which were available at the school (laboratory technicians,
electricians, gardeners, etc.)
4.4.2 4-4-2 Common services contribute to the implementation of the institution's project.
The ISI has 12 computer rooms and 4 teaching blocks spread over 14
hectares. It has the management, 5 departments, a library, a center of
calculation, research structures, doctoral school….
4.4.3 4-4-3 The institution must have a transparent system for the internal distribution of resources
financial.
“Title I” of the school budget is set each year in consultation between the departments
financial institutions of the School and those of the Ministry. The School then freely manages its budget,
in accordance with its status as a Public Administrative Establishment. In 2018 this budget
amounted to 1,780,000,000 Dinars. The remainder of Title I amounted at the end of 2018 to
549,572,049 Dinars. “Title II” comes essentially from the opening activity on
the environment, research and engineering program contracts and projects
competitive research projects both nationally and internationally. In 2018 this budget rose to
to 1,158,905,000 Dinars. The financial report is presented each year to the scientific council of
ISI. The distribution of financial resources by heading is carried out by looking at expenditure
relative to the previous year and depending on the evolution of the number of students.
4.4.4 4-4-4 The institution must have suitable logistical resources to effectively manage its
movable heritage (e.g. rolling stock) and real estate (e.g. green spaces).
ISI has 164 administrative staff, technicians and workers. The number of technicians and workers in
Class 1 is in continuous decline which leads to the use of subcontracting for the management of the
movable and immovable assets (longer delays, quality of service provided, etc.).
It has several software programs for store management and archive management.
The lack of communication between the software used leads to traceability problems.
4.5 QUALITY MANAGEMENT
4.5.1 4-5-1 The institution has a quality unit  
The ISI Quality Committee was formalized by ISI management in December 2016.
This committee includes 15 members: 9 teacher-researchers belonging to the 5 departments
of the ISI. It also includes 2 members belonging to the administrative staff, 1 technician, 2
engineering students and 1 representative of the Association of ISI Graduates (ADISI).  
 
  
4.5.1.1 4-5-2- a The institution should determine relevant external and internal issues by
in relation to its purpose and strategic orientation, and influencing its ability to
achieve the expected results. It should also monitor and regularly review
information relating to these external and internal issues.
A diagnosis of the ISI was made according to the ISO 9001-2015 standard, which made it possible to establish
the action plan and to carry out a SWOT analysis which allowed the identification of risks and
opportunities. Then the internal and external issues were determined. These issues were
recorded in the Quality Manual.
4.5.1.2 4-5-2- b The institution should take these issues into account when determining the risks and
the opportunities that need to be taken into account.
The analysis of risks and opportunities has not yet been done.  
4.5.1.3 4-5-2- c The institution should plan the actions to be implemented in the face of risks and
opportunities. The actions implemented should be proportional to
the potential impact on the compliance of the services provided
The action plan will be established following the analysis of risks and opportunities.
4.5.2 4-5-3 Management shall establish relevant policy and objectives which integrate, without being inconsistent with,
limit the following points:
฀ positioning in the regional, national and international strategic dimension
฀ the challenges and support for the training provided
฀ the overall scientific and professional objectives of the training provided
A brainstorming session was organized with the participation of representatives of the stakeholders.
internal and external to highlight key words to define the policy, mission and
ISI objectives. The “Management Quality Commitment”, presented to the scientific council of
ISI in December 2016, describes the School's quality policy. This policy places students
at the center of interest of the School and is organized around the following objectives:  
● Develop accredited training courses that meet scientific and technological challenges
economics of tomorrow.  
● Develop applied research with high added value.  
● Recruit the best students.  
● Attract the best teacher-researchers.  
● Promote staff training and development
● Guarantee equal opportunities
● Offer everyone a listening ear and an attractive and collaborative working environment
4.5.3 4-5-4 Management shall ensure that responsibilities and authorities for relevant roles
at the establishment level are allocated, communicated and understood within
the establishment. Management should assign the necessary responsibilities and skills to
its staff to ensure that the services provided are carried out in accordance with the
regulatory requirements, stakeholders and internal requirements.
Administrative staff job descriptions are being developed to determine
the required skills. The ISI provides training to its administrative staff to
improve your skills.
 
  
4.5.4 4-5-5 The institution must develop and implement appropriate documentation for the
quality management at different levels (institution, programs, research, etc.).
documented information (paper and/or electronic) required by this standard
must be:
฀ Available and suitable for use;
฀ Adequately protected and safeguarded (e.g. against loss of confidentiality, use
inappropriate or loss of integrity);
฀ Updates.
A global mapping of the quality approach made it possible to highlight the sub-
processes related to the four main processes:
● Process Management: Listening and measuring customer satisfaction, correction, audit,
analysis and continuous improvement, strategy and management.
● Implementation process: Initial training of engineers, doctoral training,  
research and service.
● Support process: Openness to the environment, education, Management of  
teachers, educational logistics, Library and Doctoral School.
● Support Process: Infrastructure, human resources, budget and finance, and
documentation.
To date, the human resources, budget and finance, doctoral school processes,
initial training have been written with the procedures that are part of it ie. The other processes and
their procedures are being developed in consultation with the pilots of these procedures.
The next phase in the implementation of the quality approach within the ISI is validation
processes and procedures developed with a view to disseminating and applying them. A procedure
document control has been developed to ensure the availability, archiving and
of updating the documents produced.
4.5.5 4-5-6 The institution must ensure that non-conformities are identified and controlled. According to the
nature of the non-conformity and its impact on the conformity of the services provided, the institution
must take appropriate action (correction and/or corrective and/or preventive action) and must
decide on their effectiveness.
Since the implementation of the QMS has not been completed, there is no analysis to determine whether the
processes to achieve the school's overall goals has not yet been made. None
study of non-conformities has not yet been carried out. Satisfaction questionnaires, needs
and expectations of internal and external stakeholders are being developed.
  
 
  
4.6 SWOT ANALYSIS AND GOVERNANCE ASSESSMENT
Strengths Weaknesses
Distribution at the beginning of each year of a
student guide containing the regulations
ISI interior updated.
Signing of the guide at the beginning of each year,
at the time of registration as a
commitment from students and the
direction of studies.
Availability of timetables, updated
weekly, on the ISI website.
Instant distribution of notes as soon as they are entered
on the ISI website accompanied by a
announcement on the institute's FB page.
Weekly schedule release
updated to teachers via a mailing list.
 
Archiving of PFEs, SFEs and reports
masters in the library.
Official appointment of a committee for the
quality for the implementation of a QMS
Periodic elections for a three-year term
years based on programs.
Collegial decision-making whether at the level
departments or at council level
scientist.
Official appointment of a 4C center including
The aim is to promote the rise in
competence of students but also of
administrative and educational staff.
Non-officialization of the organization chart
functional.
Lack of job descriptions for the
administrative.
Non-standardized communication of
events scheduled by the clubs.
Lack of a system for evaluating
teachings and satisfaction, either from the
part of the students, either on the part of the
teachers.
Non-existence of an annual calendar of
periodic meetings.
Lack of logistical resources.
Lack of communication between the
services.
Lack of complaints procedure/
treatment of breakdowns, malfunctions
at the level of teaching rooms and
practical work.
Delay in receiving mail.
Lack of an information system.
Lack of internal communication.
Lack of study of needs and expectations
internal and external stakeholders.
Lack of long-term strategic vision
and poor communication of the orientations of
the ISI.
Low involvement of teachers in the
promotion of activities.
Low interaction with students, except in
cases of complaints.
Imbalance between available resources
with the objectives and the missions targeted.
Short term of management mandate.
Lack of material resources.
Disparity in teaching load between
the different departments.
Identification and analysis of risks and
opportunities are not made upstream.
 
Lack of dissemination of the commitment of the
direction (Poster, Website, Training,
etc.).
 
  
Heavy day-to-day management.
Opportunity Risk
Possibility of transition to EPST status.
Possibility of submitting multiple projects
PAQ.
Possibility to improve the school budget by
own resources.
Moving to a management by objective system.
Reduction in the budget allocated by the ministry (to
through the University)
The lack of sufficient involvement of
teachers in the various committees at
due to lack of incentives, including the
implementation of a QMS.
5 LIFE WITHIN THE INSTITUTION AND SOCIETY
5.1 RECEPTION AND CARE OF STUDENTS AND STAFF
5-1-1 The institution must set up a relevant system for welcoming and guiding
students.
During the integration week, which generally coincides with the first week of
course, meetings are organized by the director of ISI, the director of studies and the
department directors with new ISI students to present the
ISI training courses and the main points of the establishment's internal regulations.  
5-1-2 The institution must set up student information systems and have
physical and/or virtual spaces dedicated to information intended for students.
The ISI has physical information devices through its notice boards, and
virtual through publication on its website and its official Facebook page intended for
all his students.  
5-1-3 The institution must promote easy and relevant access to the IT tool
The ISI has several Wi-Fi access points, distributed throughout the premises of the establishment,
The internet is accessible to all students.
5-1-4 The institution should define a strategy for managing the skills of its employees.
It must, on a regular basis, develop a training plan for administrative staff and
technical.
Employees should exercise the prerogatives officially attached to the positions they hold.
occupy. UTM occasionally offers training to its staff. On the other hand,
More specific training should be scheduled based on identified needs.
5-1-5
The institution sets up information systems for students and staff
A physical and virtual information device is made available to students and the
ISI staff, through the notice board, the institution's website and its page
official facebook. These supports allow to inform students and staff of the
events organized at the ISI and any notices published by the ISI management. Students
are still informed of their schedule and grades via the website
the establishment. On the other hand, teachers often have access to the various information
concerning through a mailing list bringing together all ISI teachers.  
 
  
5.2 CULTURAL AND SPORTING ACTIVITIES
5.2.1 The institution must support and assist the creation and operation of structures and
cultural, artistic and sports associations. It must also support the organization
cultural, artistic and sporting activities.
The ISI has:
✔ 10 clubs namely: Securninets, ARTBOX, ISI Junior Entreprise, Freewayes, IEEE ISI,
Enactus-ISI, Change Makers, Beb-ISI, ISI_GEEKS, Creative Lab.  
✔ 1 association: Association of scientific and cultural clubs of the ISI.
Sports and cultural activities are offered such as table tennis, football, gambling
of failure…For club activities, the school provides students with a space
dedicated. The Association of Scientific and Cultural Clubs of ISI supports students in
the organization of events and the various structures of the establishment support the
students in identifying different sources of funding for the organization of
scientific and cultural events.
5.2.2 The institution promotes the development of cultural and sporting structures and associations.
Every year new clubs are created.  
5.3 LIVING, WORKING AND STUDY CONDITIONS OF THE ACTORS OF
THE UNIVERSITY (HEALTH, HYGIENE, SAFETY, ...)
5.3.1 The institution should provide an appropriate living environment for all its human resources. It
should have built and furnished spaces intended for the institution's human resources.
The ISI has built spaces intended for classrooms, practical work, offices
teachers, administrative and technical staff offices, rooms intended for
workers, a club space is reserved for students for their meetings and activities, as well
than a large space dedicated to the library. However, these premises are not sufficient and
efficiently arranged to meet the educational needs of the establishment. The number
office space for teachers is much lower than the number of permanent teachers
of the establishment. To fill this deficit, almost all offices have been allocated
groups of teachers, sometimes 4 teachers for a space of approximately 6 m2.
5.3.2 The institution must have arrangements and means to manage health and safety at
work of its human resources
At the ISI a number of provisions exist to preserve hygiene, health and
safety at work for students and civil servants. A medical room is available, a
A nurse and a psychologist intervene regularly and as needed and provide
student monitoring. In addition, additional training for students and
officials in the management of health and safety at work would allow for better management of
emergency case.
 
  
5.3.3 The institution must define policies and measures designed to facilitate the lives of people with
specific needs (students, administrative staff, teachers, visitors).
Unfortunately, the institution has not implemented a policy to make life easier for
people with special needs. The ISI infrastructure and premises have not been
designed to meet these needs.
5.3.4 The institution's teacher-researchers and researchers must have access to
individual spaces suitable for design, reflection and communication with students.
The ISI has only one research laboratory. The teachers and doctoral students assigned to this
laboratory has a dedicated space for research and supervision.
5.3.5 The institution develops partnerships with communities, city and regional organizations
the region in favor of its students and staff.
The ISI has established several agreements with public and private companies (FIS, HLI, AMC
Ernst & Young, Intercom Technologies, Linedata, Think.it, Wevioo, ADACTIM, Axefinanace,
Telnet, Breakpoint Technology, TBS). These conventions cover the areas of
teaching, internships, PFE, student life. The ISI Staff Association has again
signed agreements with companies for subsidies for meal vouchers
and for social assistance for its members.
5.3.6 The institution contributes, with the relevant services, to the care of students and
personal (catering, accommodation, transport, etc.)
The ISI does not have any assets, in order to guarantee accommodation for its students.
national provisions in force do not guarantee accommodation in university halls of residence
all students, a large number of students accommodate themselves in premises
private. For the establishment's staff, catering tickets are given to
members of the ISI staff association.  
5.4 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (ETHICS, CITIZENSHIP, EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES,
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT, …)
5.4.1 The institution should demonstrate involvement in civic activities, particularly in
terms of sustainable development.
The ISI does not have a policy or means to demonstrate involvement in
civic and sustainable development activities.
5.4.2 The institution must define and implement provisions to ensure equality for students
opportunities, fair treatment, impartiality and transparency.
The ISI has implemented provisions to ensure equal opportunities and transparency of
its treatments. Via the regular display of score formulas in the context of competitions
organized by the ISI, the prior posting of the rules which will be adopted for the elimination of
students whose number of absences has exceeded the recommended quota, the half-yearly display of
DS and exam notes, prior display of the criteria necessary to benefit from the
process of checking marks and double corrections. Coding of exam papers
 
  
in order to guarantee the anonymity of the copies. Again, student representatives participate and
are informed at all times of decisions taken against students. At the beginning of each
year, a representative from each class is elected to act as a representative of the students with regard to
the management.
5.4.3 The institution is involved in and encourages civic activities, exchanges and debates
societal.
The Clubs often organize debates with civil society in the presence of representatives of
associations, government and independent bodies on issues of
governance, the ethical responsibility of engineers, corruption… The club IN NEWS
regularly organizes social actions to help deprived regions.
5.4.4 The institution ensures compliance with the principles and rules of ethics and professional conduct
Awareness of the principles of ethical and professional conduct rules is addressed in
some cross-cutting modules. But this remains insufficient for effective awareness-raising
students.  
 
  
5.5 SWOT ANALYSIS AND EVALUATION OF LIFE WITHIN THE INSTITUTION
Strengths Weaknesses
- Equal opportunities, fairness, impartiality and
transparency for students, pillars of the
ISI policy.
- ISI website
- Free Wi-Fi access
- Library quite rich in
scientific documentations.
- Wide range of club activities with
strong student motivation
- Availability of an infirmary room  
- Monitoring of students by a psychologist  
- Regular organization of actions to come
in aid of deprived regions by some
ISI clubs.
- Support for staff catering
by the ISI Association
- Involvement of the Association of Clubs of
the ISI to subsidize their activities.  
- Presence of surveillance cameras in
all the corridors of the building and on the
different access points.
 
- Premises not suitable for activities
educational.
- Cramped offices and workspaces
work.
- Lack of offices for new employees
teachers.
- No space available for
student supervision.
- Failure to adapt the infrastructure of
buildings with specific needs
- Non-compliance of certain blocks with the
security requirements and lack of
adequate training of students and
officials to the gestures of the first
help
- Low financial means for
the development of certain premises including the
4C –ISI center.
- Lack of toilets and hygiene
bathroom
-
Lack of reading and leisure space  
for students
- Low involvement of ISI in activities
citizens, exchanges and debates
societal.
- Lack of training for
responsible for services along their
careers to be able to access
grade promotions
- No refreshment bars, restaurants or gardens.
- Undeveloped parking.
 
Opportunities Risks
- Possibility of joint graduation for
ISI laureates.
- Proposal of engineering internships at
the stranger.
- Business agreement with the ISI
for the financing of the activities of
clubs.
- Risk of non-renewal of the contract
rental of the ISI premises.
- No emergency exit in some blocks
of the building.
- Presence of certain dead zones not
covered by surveillance cameras
especially in the ISI parking lot.
 
  
- Involvement of certain companies
to subsidize the activities of
the ISI Staff Association.
- Presence of a 4C-ISI center and a
incubator.
- Presence of a certification center at
the ISI.
 
- Difficulty in replacing workers and
staff leaving due to situation
economic in the country
- Exodus of teachers and students
abroad due to conditions
unfavorable economic conditions.
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
5.6 SWOT ANALYSIS AND EVALUATION OF LIFE WITHIN THE INSTITUTION
Strengths Weaknesses
- Equal opportunities, fairness, impartiality and
transparency for students, pillars of the
ISI policy.
- ISI website
- Library quite rich in
scientific documentations.
- Wide range of club activities with
strong student motivation
- Monitoring of students by a psychologist  
- Regular organization of actions to come
in aid of deprived regions by some
ISI clubs.
- Involvement of the Association of Clubs of
the ISI to subsidize their activities.  
- Presence of surveillance cameras in
all the corridors of the building and on the
different access points.
 
- Premises not suitable for activities
educational.
- Cramped offices and workspaces
work.
- Lack of offices for new employees
teachers.
- No space available for
student supervision.
- Failure to adapt the infrastructure of
buildings with specific needs
- Non-compliance of certain blocks with the
security requirements and lack of
adequate training of students and
officials to the gestures of the first
help
- Low financial means for
the development of certain premises including the
4C –ISI center.
- Lack of toilets and hygiene
bathroom
-
Lack of reading and leisure space  
for students
- Low involvement of ISI in activities
citizens, exchanges and debates
societal.
- Lack of training for
responsible for services along their
careers to be able to access
grade promotions
- No refreshment bars, restaurants or gardens.
- Undeveloped parking.
 
Opportunities Risks
- Possibility of joint graduation for
ISI laureates.
- Proposal of engineering internships at
the stranger.
- Business agreement with the ISI
for the financing of the activities of
clubs.
-
   Regular organization of open days.
- Risk of non-renewal of the contract
rental of the ISI premises.
- No emergency exit in some blocks
of the building.
- Presence of certain dead zones not
covered by surveillance cameras
especially in the ISI parking lot.
 
  
- Involvement of certain companies for
subsidize the activities of the Association
ISI staff.
- Presence of a 4C-ISI center and a
incubator.
- Presence of a certification center
certiport to the ISI.
 
- Difficulty in replacing workers and
staff leaving due to situation
economic in the country
- Exodus of teachers and students
abroad due to conditions
unfavorable economic conditions.
 
The analysis of the training compliance rate by heading, expressed as a percentage, is
shown in Figure 9 according to the grid developed by the UTM quality relay committee
(appendix).
 
 
Figure 9: Compliance rate of life within the Institution
6 RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN ISI AND UTM
6.1 RELATIONSHIP OF 'ISI WITH THE UTM
6-1-1 Assessment of the current level of autonomy of action between
the establishment and the UTM  
A close dependence on administrative formalities. EPST status no
still granted
6-1-2 Level of involvement of the establishment with the UTM  
The director and a teacher from the ISI are members of the scientific council of the UTM. A
ISI teacher is on the UTM quality relay committee. An ISI teacher is a member
of the information system committee.
 

 
  
 
 
6.2 RELATIONSHIP OF UTM WITH ISI
6-2-1 Level of involvement of the UTM in the activities of the establishment  
The UTM president is present at almost all ISI events. UTM
encourages the activities of the ISI by financial means. The UT M organizes training courses
for its administrative staff and those of other institutions. They are planned
annually.
6-2-2 Added value provided by the UTM, appreciation and competitiveness  
UTM was ranked 1st Tunisian university, 9th in Africa and among the top 800 (rank
703) of universities worldwide for the year 2017-2018, according to the organization
international university ranking: University Ranking by Academic Performance
(URAP).
6-2-3 Visibility of UTM's strategic axes for the establishment and their
consistency with his own
The ISI's strategic orientation policy is consistent with the UTM strategy
which has been strongly committed in recent years to the continuous improvement of its
performances and those of its establishments, by starting the design and development
of Quality Management Systems in accordance with the requirements of the standards
recognized.
6-2-4 Proposals promoting the development of a shared strategy and
of a synergy  
Following the MESRS proposal of the PAQ-DGSU project for the Development of
Strategic Management, UTM presented a concept note for a GAGE ​​project which encompasses
all institutions. The ISI is strongly committed to preparing the final project.
  
 
  
6.3 SWOT ANALYSIS AND EVALUATION
Strengths Weaknesses
- Strong involvement of the ISI
- Strong involvement of the president
- Ranking performance
- Creation of the quality committee
- Nationally renowned establishment and
international
- Research structures able to
respond to national priority areas and
international: Co-supervised theses
- Cooperative research projects
international
- Integration of procedures and criteria of
University rankings
- Start of integration of the approach
Quality Management within
UTM and its 15 institutions:
PAQ PHARE program
- ISI accreditation.
- Restructuring process in EPST
started for UTM, ISI, FMT and
from IBLV
- Radiation, Maghreb Mediterranean and
international through conventions and
twinning
- Multidisciplinary academic teams and
Administrative and Management Capacity
of projects in certain establishments
-
Partnership with IEAQA
- Non-operability of the UTM observatory
- Administrative management procedures and
heavy and unsuitable financial
- Complexity of the purchasing process
not allowing the seizure of opportunities
- Non-established facilities and infrastructure
adapted for certain institutions, including
included for UTM
- Insufficient deployment of new
Information technology for a
modernization of administrative activity
and an integration of new modes
of teachings (MOOC, ICTs.)
- Educational and research laboratories
not in compliance with regulatory requirements
- Restrictive regulatory texts do not
not allowing to move towards attractiveness
for external trainers/experts
market players
- Lack of support structures for
UTM relationship manager function-
Companies and set up the system
communication aimed at informing the
professional environment of the proposed courses
by UTM institutions
- Lack of communication and marketing
enhancing the image of UTM
  
 
  
Opportunities Risks
- Openness and collaboration with stakeholders
of the market through the programs
PAQ of the Supervisory Ministry (Collabora…)
- Collaborative projects with technology parks
for the valuation and exploitation of results
innovative projects carried out and validated by
research structures (realization of
industrial prototypes, development/
improvement of production system,
process, device or product)
- -Social network of former graduates of
UTM institutions
- -IEAQA authorization for
accreditation and recognition
international diplomas issued by
UTM for expanded employability of
graduates
- Reduction in the number of students
- International Ranking Criteria
controllable
- European and international interest in the
mobility and research: Erasmus+,
H2020…
- Needs of African countries:
Recognition of skills of
UTM and its institutions
- Financing line capacities for the
upgrade through programs
PAQ of the Supervisory Ministry (Promess,…)
- Teaching premises, equipment
scientists, courses…
- Gradual reduction of the management budget
and the budget allocated to research
not allowing the restructuring of
premises, educational resources and
research
- Slowing down the update process
provision of the necessary skills:
teachers, administrators and workers.
- Absence of policy from the Ministry of
guardianship to regulate the immigration of
skills in the face of mass departures
retirement
- Slowing down of the autonomy process
universities and restructuring in
EPST
 
The analysis of the training compliance rate by heading, expressed as a percentage, is
shown in Figure 10 according to the grid developed by the UTM quality relations committee
(appendix).
 
  
 
Figure 10: UTM relationship assessment compliance rate
7 OVERALL EVALUATION
The synthesis of all the sections: Training, Research, Governance, Life within
of the institution and Relationship with the UTM, according to the grid developed by the quality relay committee
The UTM survey showed that the ISI is well governed, at a rate of 84.5%,
training and life within the institution are relatively correct with a respective rate
of 64% and 66.8, however a significant effort remains to be made at the research level only 37%
compliance rate (Figure 11).
 
 
Figure 11: Overall assessment compliance rate in %

 
  
ISI Self-Assessment Report
 
Strengths Weaknesses
Training
- Excellent supervision rate  
- Quality of teachers  
- Anchoring research in training  
- High number of foreign visiting teachers per year
- Well-conducted skills-based approach
- Diversity of training offer in content and learners
- Entrepreneurship training
- Existence of the 4C career center
- Partitioning of departments and specialties of the school  
- Volume of SST (health, safety at work) too low in relation to
prepared professions
- Low participation rate of professionals in training
- Sustainability of 4C career centers
 
Research
- One of the oldest doctoral schools in Tunisia.
- Large number of laboratories.
- Multidisciplinary research
- Significant participation of research structures in the projects
international
- Lack of a research strategy
- Lack of visibility of search results
- Lack of a research promotion unit
Governance
 
- Start of the implementation of the following quality management system
ISO 21001-2018 quality committee  
- Strong involvement of students in the life of the ISI
- Targeted organization of communication with internal stakeholders
and external  
- Signing of the commitment and its dissemination during a day of
awareness raising for the implementation of a QMS
- Failure to complete stakeholder satisfaction questionnaires
 
- Delay in final approval of the EPST transfer request.
- Lack of an information system
- Insufficient internal and external communication
- Lack of study of the needs and expectations of stakeholders
internal and external
- Lack of communication of the ISI's strategic orientations
- Continued decline in admiring and educational staff
-
Failure to carry out risk and opportunity analysis
 
  
ISI Self-Assessment Report
 
Life within the institution
- Wide range of club activities
- Equal opportunities, fairness, impartiality and transparency for the s
Students, pillars of ISI policy
- Integration week for welcoming students
- Involvement of ADISI in ISI activities
- Cramped club spaces.  
- Cramped work spaces.  
 
  
 
  
ISI Self-Assessment Report
Opportunities Risks
Training
- Interdisciplinary and inter-specialty projects
- Great networking  
- Call for international projects for the improvement of training and
professional integration
- International recognition of the programs offered  
- Number of students down due to the low wave
demographic
- Difficulty in recruiting teaching staff
- Increased competition with other establishments of the same training
- Reduction in the number of scholarships and funding allowing
students to participate in international mobility and obtain a
double degree
Research
- Possibility of synergy between research structures  
- International call for tenders for research projects
- Decrease in funding
- Poor referencing of publications
- Decrease in the recruitment of doctoral students due to low salaries and
the growing attractiveness of foreign laboratories
Governance
- Possibility of submitting a PAQ project for financing of the
implementation of an information system
- Establishment of a quality unit in coordination with the quality unit
from the University
- Reduction in the budget allocated by the ministry (through the University)
- Decrease in own resources and industrial contracts (recession)
economic)
- EPST passage delayed for administrative or political reasons.
Life within the institution
- Proposal of engineering internships abroad by IAESTE
- Business convention with the friendly ISI staff
- Difficulty in replacing staff due to the economic situation
in the country
- Exodus of the best students abroad due to conditions
difficult economic times
 
