 
 
 
 
 
 
Social and environmental responsibility statement
from ISI
 
 
Academic institutions play a crucial role as drivers and disseminators of
knowledge, which obliges them to integrate and promote the principles of Responsibility
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) both internally and externally, taking into account
all their stakeholders.
In this regard, the ISI management, its students, faculty and staff
administrative staff are committed to investing fully in this CSR approach. The three pillars
economic, social and environmental will therefore be priorities, receiving attention and
manifest commitments.
Teaching and research activities will become tools to raise awareness
more about the importance of CSR and to implement actions that respond to this
imperative.
This commitment encompasses several areas, including ethics, education of
students, working conditions, health and safety, and the environment.  
 
 
1. Ethical Commitment  
 
ISI is committed to promoting ethical values ​​within its community by emphasizing
on integrity, academic freedom, professionalism and the development of
skills, with mutual respect without tolerance for violence, a search for
scientific truth and fairness in all processes, and rejecting any form of
discrimination.
 
2. Academic Commitment  
 
At this stage, ISI is committed to providing a stimulating and in-phase learning environment
with the expectations of the job market, while helping students to fully develop
their academic, professional and personal potential. This includes raising awareness of
social responsibilities, the promotion of civic values ​​such as commitment
community, the creation of attitudes focused on creativity and diversity, the development
of a culture of effective teamwork, and the promotion of the values ​​of equality, fairness and
respect for human rights throughout the academic community.
 
 

3. Social Commitment  
 
ISI commits to its staff to adopt resource management practices
quality human resources, to promote professional development, to create an environment
fulfilling work and to respect the principles of human rights and non-discrimination.
discrimination.
 
4. Health and Safety Commitment  
 
ISI considers health and safety as top priorities to ensure conditions
of optimal work and study. To achieve this objective, the ISI is implementing an approach
structured based on four main axes: protection of stakeholders, reduction
risks, compliance with international labour standards and integration of health into
all activities.  
 
5. Commitment to the Environment and Sustainability  
 
ISI recognizes its responsibility to future generations by protecting the environment
and by integrating ecological values ​​into its activities. This approach not only
strengthens its educational, research and public service mission, but could also generate
operational savings to improve working and student conditions.  
 
To put this commitment into practice, the ISI is committed to promoting the principles of the 3Rs (Reduction,
Reuse, Recycling), to reduce its carbon footprint, to save resources
natural, to respect environmental regulations, to purchase products
environmentally friendly, to conduct research on sustainable technologies, to
to raise awareness and train its members in environmental preservation, as well as
collaborate with partners for ecological development actions.
 
 
 
The ISI Directorate
